## About
Duochrome is a minimal jekyll theme with just a splash of color.
(Based on the Monochrome Jekyll theme)

Some websites can be too cluttered with style, ads, and "features" that
it can feel annoying to use. Duochrome takes all the beautiful simplcity
of Monochrome and adds just a little bit of color and fun, while still
keeping things minimal and easy on the eyes.

## Duochrome's Additional Features

- Cleaned up code. removed some clunky "if this, else that" portions
that werent needed
- Removed custom headers. Monochrome had you set an option and edit a
seperate file called "header-custom.html" or "footer-custom.html." It
was tedious and bothersome. Now if you need to edit the header, just
change "header.html", simple.
- Added several options to color up your posts just a little.

## Monochrome's Features

- Completely responsive and mobile first
- Clean SEO friendly URLs, auto-generated from post title (no messy dates in the url)
- SEO title/description integration
- Sitemap ready
- Pagination support
- Mobile friendly navigation menu
- Easy customization for header, footer, navigation links, colors, favicon etc
- Default Monochrome Color Palette - black, white, greys
- About page
- 404 page
- ..and a lot more

## Install/Setup Jekyll

(Skip if you already have Jekyll 2.2)

1. Make sure Ruby 2.2 is installed 
```
sudo apt-get install ruby2.2
sudo apt-get install ruby2.2-dev
```
2. Install bundle: `sudo gem install bundler`
3. Install jekyll: `sudo gem install jekyll`

### Resources

- We found the jekyll tutorials on youtube very quick and useful to get started
- [Jekyll documentation](http://jekyllrb.com)   


## Install Duochrome dependencies

```
sudo gem install jekyll-paginate
sudo gem install jekyll-sitemap

```

## Get Started with Duochrome

### Option 1 

- Fork this repository
- (Optional) Change the 'baseurl' value in the 'config.yml' file, from '/blog' to your preferred directory/project name (example '/xyz' or '/' to install in root)
- Clone the forked repository to your local machine to make changes
- Run 'jekyll serve' and open browser to 'localhost:4000/blog/' to see your changes
- (Optional) Host with github pages


## Write a Post

- cd into  ``_posts/``
- create new file with format yyyy-mm-dd-title-of-post.md
- (Optional) choose a color (rgb hex value, without the #, eg 2036a4) 
- add title/description (refer any of the test posts)
- add markdown and save

## Customization Options

You can customize this layout using instructions below. 

### Colors

The basic colors are set into the ``base.scss`` file:
- $background-color: used for background and links in the navigation menu
- $text-color: used for text and title in posts and pages 
- $text-light-color: used for text lighter than text-color
- $text-dark-color: used for text darker than text-color

To customize the colors, just set the values in HEX, RGB (or RGBa) or any other format accepted by CSS.

### Navigation menu

The links inside the navigation menu are autogenerated from pages having the layout set to ``page``.
You can set custom links, by putting in the ``<a>`` tag into the ``link.html`` file.

### Branch
There are two branches: 
- ``master``: is for development.
- ``gh-pages``: is only for demo site.  

### Baseurl

You can change the 'baseurl' value in the 'config.yml' file, from '/monochrome' to your preferred directory/project name (example '/xyz' or '/' to install in root)

### Typography

To maintain the vertical rhythm, it has been applied a **Typographic scale** as a modular scale, with a baseline set to 24px. To maintain this rhythm you need to insert elements like image, video or other contents with a 24px (or multiple) height as refer.

## Resources

- We found the jekyll tutorials on youtube very quick and useful to get started
- [Jekyll documentation](http://jekyllrb.com)   

## Todo

- Google Analytics integration

## Authors

### Duochrome
- Skyler Curtis

### Monochrome: TheReviewIndex
- Dyuti Barma
- Web site: [Review Aggregation and Summary Site for India - TheReviewIndex.com](https://thereviewindex.com)

## License
Released under [MIT License](license.md).
